In this lecture we're going to
talk about HTMLl lists.
Now, lists are an incredibly useful
HTML structure that allows you to
group related content.
If you think about it we,
as regular people we think
of things In terms of lists.
To do lists, shopping lists, so on.
And therefore it's totally
natural that lists appeal
to us as an organization tool.
Let's go ahead and
jump straight into the code and
take a look as to how to
implement these lists in HTML.
Okay assignment sublime text and
I'm looking at the document called
unordered-lists-before.html.
And the file is located in
the examples lecture 07 folder.
And as you can see her we have
a list here in front of us,
my typical dinner shopping list.
Milk Donuts, cookies, some different types
of cookies, and then obviously at the end,
Pepto Bismol.
So what we'd like to do is produce
a bulleted list in our HTML document.
So if you look at the page right now,
the way it looks in the browser,
is you can see there is no list.
It's just a bunch of
spaces in between them.
And the reason that is,
as I've told you before, all the different
new line characters or any other separator
characters such as tabs, extra spaces,
they're really all ignored by the browser
and only one space is honored.
And since typically, our shopping list
is not something we need to buy in order
we can use an unordered list for
this example.
So the way you create an unordered list
is you specify a ul unordered list
ul tag around your entire content, and
every item within the list Is in li tag,
otherwise known as list items.
So let's go ahead and
indent this and surround every one
of these items with and li tag.
When we get to the cookies item we
could see that the cookies item
contains more than just the word cookies.
It actually contains its
own list inside of it.
Which means the content of our li should
really expand not just the cookies,
but expand all the way to chocolate,
sugar, and peanut butter.
And it also means that we need to create
another unordered list inside our
cookies item.
Let's go ahead and indent this and
we'll surround each one of
these items in an li as well.
Last but not least, Pepto Bismol is
supposed to be surrounded by an li tag as
well, and that list item really belongs
to our original unordered list.
So let's save the document, and
let's refresh and look at it in a browser.
And here we go.
We have our unordered list.
As the last step, let's make sure that
we actually wrote HTML that is valid and
we'll cut and
paste the HTML into the W3C validator.
As you can see, our HTML page is valid But
let's see what happens if I take one
of the items in my unordered list and
simply remove the li tags around it.
In this case I remove the li tag
around the Pepto Bismol list item.
If we check it again, we see that the HTML
that was written is now invalid and
the reason is, it says, text not
allowed inside ul In this context.
And what it's telling you is that the only
thing is allowed inside a ul element
is an li element.
Anything else is not allowed.
There are lists out there that
absolutely require some ordering to it.
For example,
I'm looking at ordered-lists-before.html
in the same folder, examples > Lecture07.
And here there's a very important
procedure called Oreo cookie
eating procedure and it's important that
this procedure is followed step by step,
without mixing up step one and step two.
So as you can see in terms of our html,
the only difference is that our ul tag
got replaced with an ol tag,
which stands for ordered list.
But the li items are exactly the same.
And the way we treat a sublist
within an ordered list
is also exactly the same as we
treated it within the unordered list.
So, for example,
here we have make a double Oreo,
which is list item that has its
own step-by-step instructions.
And it does appear inside an ol,
which is ordered list, inside the lI item.
So this item right here,
contains an ordered list inside of it.
Let's take a look what this page
looks like, in the browser.
And here's our ordered list.
Our Oreo cookie eating procedure.
Open box, take out cookie,
make a double Oreo, has its own list.
Which is peel off the top part,
place another cookie in the middle, and
put back the top part.
And the fourth one is enjoy.
Wow there's so many things
you're learning in this course.
In summary, lists provide a natural and
commonly used grouping for content.
Very often lists I use for structuring
navigation portions of the web page.
Next we're going to be talking about
HTML character entity references.